getting_help.rst, before:

.. _help:

Getting Help
============

This tutorial is an early draft. It is likely that you will quickly be blocked
by an incomplete section (like "XXX") or a missing section. Don't hesistate to
complain, ask for help, and report issues!

Active Core Developers
----------------------

While the CPython developers has more than 100 core developers, some of them
"left" the project and are no more active.

`GitHub statistics on contributors
<https://github.com/python/cpython/graphs/contributors>`_ can help to identify
active contributors *if* you select a recent time window, like last 6 or 12
months.

Developers available to mentor new contributors:

* Victor Stinner, lives in France, works for Red Hat, core dev since 2010.
  IRC nickname: ``haypo`` on Freenode.
  Timezone: `France (Paris) local clock <https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/france/paris>`_.

#python-dev channel
-------------------

The IRC ``#python-dev`` channel of the `Freenode server
<http://freenode.net/>`_.

Some nicknames:

* ``haypo``: Victor Stinner

Core-mentorship mailing list
----------------------------

* `Python Core Mentorship <https://www.python.org/dev/core-mentorship/>`_
* `The core-mentorship mailing list
  <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/core-mentorship/>`_

Developer Guide
---------------

* `Python Developer’s Guide <https://docs.python.org/devguide/>`_

Contributors
------------

Contributors are also encouraged to help other contributors since new comers
are the most experienced in issues to start contributing for CPython :-)

Looking for help on a specific Python module
--------------------------------------------

The `Expert Index <https://docs.python.org/devguide/experts.html>`_ lists
maintainers for the some but not all Python modules.

Commit message:

Change my nickname from haypo to vstinner

getting_help.rst, after:

.. _help:

Getting Help
============

This tutorial is an early draft. It is likely that you will quickly be blocked
by an incomplete section (like "XXX") or a missing section. Don't hesistate to
complain, ask for help, and report issues!

Active Core Developers
----------------------

While the CPython developers has more than 100 core developers, some of them
"left" the project and are no more active.

`GitHub statistics on contributors
<https://github.com/python/cpython/graphs/contributors>`_ can help to identify
active contributors *if* you select a recent time window, like last 6 or 12
months.

Developers available to mentor new contributors:

* Victor Stinner, lives in France, works for Red Hat, core dev since 2010.
  IRC nickname: ``vstinner`` on Freenode.
  Timezone: `France (Paris) local clock <https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/france/paris>`_.

#python-dev channel
-------------------

The IRC ``#python-dev`` channel of the `Freenode server
<http://freenode.net/>`_.

Some nicknames:

* ``vstinner``: Victor Stinner (previously known as ``haypo``)

Core-mentorship mailing list
----------------------------

* `Python Core Mentorship <https://www.python.org/dev/core-mentorship/>`_
* `The core-mentorship mailing list
  <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/core-mentorship/>`_

Developer Guide
---------------

* `Python Developer’s Guide <https://docs.python.org/devguide/>`_

Contributors
------------

Contributors are also encouraged to help other contributors since new comers
are the most experienced in issues to start contributing for CPython :-)

Looking for help on a specific Python module
--------------------------------------------

The `Expert Index <https://docs.python.org/devguide/experts.html>`_ lists
maintainers for the some but not all Python modules.
